draft text for security considerations (#98)
ietf-wg-masque/draft-ietf-masque-quic-proxy: draft-ietf-masque-quic-proxy.md

as to limit abuse or use of proxies to launch Denial-of-Service attacks.

Sending QUIC packets by forwarding through a proxy without tunnelling exposes
clients to additional information exposure and deanonymization attacks which
need to be carefully considered. Analysis should consider both passive and
active attackers which may be global or localized to the network paths used
on each side of a proxy. The following highlights deanonymization risks with
using forwarded mode.

## Passive Attacks

A passive attacker aims to deanonymize a client by correlating traffic across
both sides of the proxy. When using forwarded mode with the null packet
transform (see {{null-transform}}), such correlation is trivial by matching
a subset of QUIC packet bytes as packets enter the proxy on one side and exit
on the other. Packet transforms such as scramble mitigate this by
cryptographically preventing such byte comparisons
(see {{!scramble-transform=scramble-transform}}).

Regardless of which packet transform is used, both tunneled and forwarded mode

> are still vulnerable to size and timing attacks.

Reviewer: This isn't quite right because tunneled mode can use padding to mitigate size attacks. I'm not sure how best to tweak this sentence to incorporate that though

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
are still vulnerable to size and timing attacks, without the addition of techniques that go beyond the analysis
in this document, such as padding and adding chaff packets.
```

> Unlike tunnelled mode where packets are fully encapsulated in the client to

Reviewer: Both tunneled and tunnelled are correct, but we should pick one

Reviewer 2: The document uses `tunnelled` most today

Author: fixed everywhere, thanks!

proxy connection, clients using forwarded mode to access multiple target servers
over the same client to proxy connection expose the number of target servers
they are communicating with on each connection.

## Active Attacks

An active attacker is an adversary that can inject, modify, drop, and view
packets in the network.

Both tunneled mode and forwarded mode (regardless of packet transform) are

> vulnerable to packet injection in the target to client direction. An attacker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
vulnerable to packet injection in the target-to-client direction. An attacker
```

can inject a burst of packets with a known QUIC Connection ID and see which
Connection ID bytes are used on the proxy to client network path.

> Packet injection with a known QUIC Connection ID can also happen in the client
> to proxy direction, however, this only affects forwarded mode since tunneled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Packet injection with a known QUIC Connection ID can also happen in the
client-to-proxy direction, however, this only affects forwarded mode since tunneled
```

> mode leverages QUIC packet authentication (see {{?RFC9001}}). None

Reviewer: I think you mean integrity protection, not authentication?

as to limit abuse or use of proxies to launch Denial-of-Service attacks.

Sending QUIC packets by forwarding through a proxy without tunnelling exposes
clients to additional information exposure and deanonymization attacks which
need to be carefully considered. Analysis should consider both passive and
active attackers which may be global or localized to the network paths used
on each side of a proxy. The following highlights deanonymization risks with
using forwarded mode.

## Passive Attacks

A passive attacker aims to deanonymize a client by correlating traffic across
both sides of the proxy. When using forwarded mode with the null packet
transform (see {{null-transform}}), such correlation is trivial by matching
a subset of QUIC packet bytes as packets enter the proxy on one side and exit
on the other. Packet transforms such as scramble mitigate this by
cryptographically preventing such byte comparisons
(see {{!scramble-transform=scramble-transform}}).

Regardless of which packet transform is used, both tunnelled and forwarded mode
are still vulnerable to size and timing attacks, without the addition of techniques that go beyond the analysis

> in this document, such as padding and adding chaff packets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
in this document, such as padding and adding chaff packets.  Such techniques could be supported
in a future packet transform, subject to additional security analysis.
```

Unlike tunnelled mode where packets are fully encapsulated in the client to
proxy connection, clients using forwarded mode to access multiple target servers
over the same client to proxy connection expose the number of target servers

> they are communicating with on each connection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
they are communicating with on each connection, and distinguish the packets sent to each target
server.  As a result, log-based correlation attacks against forwarded mode are expected to be
highly effective even when "scramble" is in use.
```

Reviewer 2: @bemasc what do you mean by "log-based"?

Reviewer 3: I meant "based on a log of CIDs and VCIDs of a large number of packets observed entering and exiting the proxy".

Reviewer 2: I think that comes down to the timing analysis, more or less. Tunnelled mode still can be one-to-one CIDs, and even if it isn't, it will generally be one-to-many, which still has pretty easy timing analysis for correlation.

Reviewer 3: The lack of multiplexing, and the packet-for-packet guarantee, seem likely to make these attacks even easier.  I think that's worth highlighting for a deployment that is choosing between tunnelled and "scramble".

## Active Attacks

An active attacker is an adversary that can inject, modify, drop, and view
packets in the network.

Both tunnelled mode and forwarded mode (regardless of packet transform) are
vulnerable to packet injection in the target-to-client direction. An attacker
can inject a burst of packets with a known QUIC Connection ID and see which

> Connection ID bytes are used on the proxy to client network path.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Connection ID is used for the corresponding burst on the proxy to client network path.
```

Packet injection with a known QUIC Connection ID can also happen in the
client-to-proxy direction, however, this only affects forwarded mode since
tunnelled mode sends packets within an authenticated and integrity protected
QUIC connection to the proxy (see {{?RFC9001}}). None of the packet transforms
defined in this document provide integrity protection. Even if a packet

> transform did provide integrity protection, attackers may inject replayed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
transform did provide integrity protection, attackers can inject replayed
```

Sending QUIC packets by forwarding through a proxy without tunnelling exposes
clients to additional information exposure and deanonymization attacks which
need to be carefully considered. Analysis should consider both passive and
active attackers which may be global or localized to the network paths used
on each side of a proxy. The following highlights deanonymization risks with
using forwarded mode.

## Passive Attacks

A passive attacker aims to deanonymize a client by correlating traffic across
both sides of the proxy. When using forwarded mode with the null packet
transform (see {{null-transform}}), such correlation is trivial by matching
a subset of QUIC packet bytes as packets enter the proxy on one side and exit
on the other. Packet transforms such as scramble mitigate this by
cryptographically preventing such byte comparisons
(see {{!scramble-transform=scramble-transform}}).

Regardless of which packet transform is used, both tunnelled and forwarded mode
are still vulnerable to size and timing attacks, without the addition of techniques that go beyond the analysis
in this document, such as padding and adding chaff packets.  Such techniques could be supported

> in a future packet transform, subject to additional security analysis.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in future packet transforms, subject to additional security analysis.
```

> Unlike tunnelled mode where packets are fully encapsulated in the client to
> proxy connection, clients using forwarded mode to access multiple target servers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike tunnelled mode where packets are fully encapsulated in the client-to-proxy
connection, clients using forwarded mode to access multiple target servers
```

> over the same client to proxy connection expose the number of target servers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
over the same client-to-proxy connection expose the number of target servers
```

they are communicating with on each connection.

## Active Attacks

An active attacker is an adversary that can inject, modify, drop, and view
packets in the network.

Both tunnelled mode and forwarded mode (regardless of packet transform) are
vulnerable to packet injection in the target-to-client direction. An attacker
can inject a burst of packets with a known QUIC Connection ID and see which

> Connection ID is used for the corresponding burst on the proxy to client network path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Connection ID is used for the corresponding burst on the proxy-to-client network path.
```
